# Branching

- Used to me called master, is now called main.

## Branches
- A branch is a sandbox cloistered off because it isn't ready
to be merged into the main line of development yet.
  
- Head is git's term for the commit that git is looking at right now. Head is the most recent commit on the branch you're looking at.

- git checkout -b foo - create a new branch called foo. 

- git checkout foo (do this to change branches)

- git branch -d foo Delete branch

- git branch -m foo rename branch

- git merge foo merges branch foo into the current branch

## Basic principles

- Don't develop on the main branch. Ever. Instead, merge other branches into it when they're production ready. 
- There's a develop branch that serves as the basis for almost all new code.
- New code should  be developed on feature branches that are branched off from development.
- Feature branches should be small and self-contained. One per ticket.

### Organizations may have different workflow
- We have 4 sprints.
- Maybe a branch for release, or a branch related to a sprint.

## What this means for you: All work on capstones should follow the git flow model.

- When starting a new ticket, create a branch for that ticket that is based on develop. 
git checkout develop
  get checkout -b my-ticket
  
- Then, do your work, adding, committing, and pushing frequently
git checkout my-ticket
  do some work
  get add my-file.txt
  git commit -m "yada yadaa"
  git pull the first time you do this it will fail, and you will have to run git push --set-upstream origin my-ticket before trying again
  
- When your work is complete for a given ticket, merge it back into develop and push it to github
    git checkout develop - git pull - git merge my-ticket - git pull
      
### Git branching
- git branch tells you what branches you have
- 


